RV University is a state-private university located in Bangalore, Karnataka, India.[8] RV University (RVU) has been established in 2021 and is governed by the RV University Act of 2019, it is notified by Government of Karnataka.[9]

Affiliation
Like all universities in India, RV University, Bangalore is recognised by the University Grants Commission (UGC).[10][11]

History
RV University is a state-private university established under the RV University Act 2019 and is approved by UGC (University Grants Commission) and Karnataka State Government.[12] RV University promoted by the Rashtreeya Sikshana Samithi Trust[13] is a trust managing RV Educational Institutions in Bangalore, Karnataka, India. RV University is one of the parent institutes which come under Rashtreeya Sikshana Samithi Trust which also manages RV College of Engineering.

Academics
RV University conducts various educational programmes at the undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD levels.There are various programs under the following disciplines.[14][15][16]

School of Liberal Arts and Sciences
School of Design and Innovation
School of Film, Media and Creative Arts
School of Computer Science and Engineering
School of Economics
School of Business
School of Law[17]

Admission
RVU admits students based on RVSAT (RV Scholastic Admission Test is the national-level entrance exam) and RVU Selection Process for all UG, PG and PhD Programmes[18] of RV University. RVU admits 40% of undergraduate engineering students based on their Karnataka CET ranks. Also RVU admits students under a management quota.

Schools
Schools and Departments	Students
RVU School of Computer Science and Engineering (SoCSE)[19]
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
540
Campus
RV University, RV Vidyanikethan Post, 8th Mile, Mysuru Road, Bengaluru - 560 059
Study at the Best University in Bangalore
Equipped with 8 decades of rich legacy of RVEI, RV University is a top university in India that imparts high quality, interdisciplinary education at an affordable cost.
World-Class Faculty
Outstanding and highly
qualified faculty members
with an excellent
curriculum framed in
consultation with top
academics and industry
experts.


Pioneering Research
Ample opportunity for students
to get involved in research
under the guidance of experts.
They also get to use the latest
facilities and tools to discover
and publish innovative
solutions to complex problems.


Global Exposure
Collaborations with top
class national and
international universities
to create learning
opportunities through
transformative exchange
programmes.
Undergraduate Programmes
Discover the diverse Undergraduate programmes offered at one of the best colleges in Bangalore that helps you strive and thrive in this ever-changing world.

View Courses 

Postgraduate Programmes
Explore the opportunities to pursue world-class postgraduate education at RVU to build a solid foundation.

View Courses 

PhD
Learn more about our diverse PhD programmes at RVU and gain a strong academic standing in your subject.
Award-Winning Faculty
RVU faculty members are highly accomplished individuals with outstanding track record in academics and research. Their global exposure has contributed to the drafting of a sound syllabus and adoption of an innovative teaching pedagogy. All faculty members are committed to providing every student with an impactful learning experience that equips them to excel in their studies.
Wishes to RVU from Eminent Personalities

Dr. Rajiv Kumar
Vice Chairman,
NITI Aayog (National Institute for Transforming India)
Government of India

“I am happy to note that RV University aspires to become a world class university with a strong commitment to academic excellence, research, internationalisation and community engagement.”


Study in


The multicultural population and progressive attitude of Bengaluru make it one of the most contemporary cities for young minds who hope to do things differently. Come, discover what makes this city so special and enjoy the benefits during your study at RVU, one of the best colleges in Bengaluru.

Contact
For general enquiry: enquiry@rvu.edu.in

Phone: +91 95136 73778

For admissions: admissions@rvu.edu.in

Phone: +91 89511 79896

Location: RV Vidyanikethan Post
8th Mile , Mysuru Road, Bengaluru - 560 059
Academics
Undergraduate Programmes
Postgraduate Programmes
PhD Programmes
School of Liberal Arts and Sciences
School of Design and Innovation
School of Economics
School of Business
School of Law
School of Computer Science and Engineering

Overview
Business administration deals with the management of an organization’s resources and time. It plays a pivotal role in ensuring that an organization is run effectively and efficiently. An effective business administration needs a combination of qualitative, quantitative, and soft skills as they deal with a plethora of problems. The opportunity to deal with pertinent issues and contribute to practice drives the discipline. Business administration as a discipline, is not bound by existing extant theory. However, decisions need to be grounded in sound logic, which drives the need for a course in business administration. A degree in business administration empowers a degree holder with a versatile outlook and surfeit of tools to solve a problem with ingenuity and aplomb. Such a skill-set augurs well for the degree holder’s future and enables her/him to contribute to the organization and society positively.

THE SOB MODEL OF HOLISTIC EDUCATION
Learning at the School of Business at RV University focuses on holistic education that creates critical thinking individuals with strong disciplinary understanding, broad perspective of issues and problems gained through multiple lenses, and hands-on experiences and skills to take on challenges and solve problems at the workplace and in real life. The School strives to provide a space where students are able to pursue their interests, satisfy their curiosities and excel in any field they choose. To facilitate such an education, the curriculum at SOB balances theoretical courses with courses that are based on practical applications, skills, and experiential learning. Students get the freedom to choose courses from within and outside of their disciplinary boundaries, and specialise in areas of their choice. Students are encouraged to take up research, projects and self-study to stimulate their critical and analytical abilities and become independent thinkers and practitioners.

The faculty at SOB come with rich experience in teaching, research and work experience in different fields of knowledge and industries. They bring in their insights from their own experiences into their teaching. They are facilitators and mentors who help students to learn from, but think outside of textbooks. Each student who enrols at SOB are unique in their potential, and the faculty are committed to recognize the uniqueness in each student and nurture them to grow to their full potential.
School of Computer Science
and Engineering
Gain knowledge essential for getting a better understanding
of the real world and comprehend the complex issues
that shape today’s global marketplace.

Home » School of Computer Science and Engineering

Overview
The School of Computer Science and Engineering (SoCSE) focuses on problem-solving, critical thinking, innovation, creativity, communication, entrepreneurship & data science to deal withVUCA (Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity, and Ambiguity) world. All programmes of the school offer an opportunity to the students to work closely with all stakeholders – industries, government policymakers, researchers, think tanks and global organisations.

USPs:

Focussed on imparting 21st century skills through experiential, holistic learning rather than exam-oriented rote learning.
Guide on the Side model of pedagogy to build impressive portfolios.
Learn and Earn from 2nd Semester onwards – Portfolio Building.
Advisory Board with eminent academicians, industry leaders and entrepreneurs to drive the vision of the department.
Curriculum supports interdisciplinary studies with minors from other schools.
Curriculum includes internships and student exchange programs with foreign universities.
Teaching methodologies:

We at SoCSE follow a unique approach to teaching and learning focused on imparting 21st Century Skills to the students that is grounded in these core ideas:

Experiential Learning: Activity based learning. Asynchronous courses.
Interdisciplinary: Minor Courses from other Schools giving students the choice to pick up other life skills and pursue passions.
Holistic: Emphasis on life skills and self- wellbeing.
Community: Community based learning designed to set up students to be integrated into the community of their area of passion and interest and set the stage for life-long learning.
Learner Analytics: Focus on individual plans through portfolio building. Mastery oriented evaluation.
These ideas are integrated seamlessly into our flexible curriculum where students can design their own curriculum based on their need and passion from a curated list of courses from four core competency areas:

1. Engineering Foundations: Engineering Exploration; Exploring Sciences;

2. Minors: Courses from School of Economics; School of Business; School of Design and Innovation; School of Liberal Arts & Sciences and School of Law.

3. Specialization and Electives: • AI, Machine Learning and Data Science • Full Stack Application Development in Cloud• Networks, IoT and Cybersecurity • Product Development/Research/Entrepreneurship • Metaverse, AR/VR and Gaming

4. Leadership Skills: • Entrepreneurship • Innovation • Management • Humanities